---
layout: default
title: "Tyler Do"
permalink: /introduction/
---
## About Me

Hello! I'm Tyler, passionate about **programming, problem-solving, and web development**.  
I enjoy working on projects that challenge me to **think critically** and **learn new technologies**.  

I have spent a lot of my childhood using technology and computers, perhaps more than I care to admit. My first device was a Nintendo DS, and my first phone was a tacky, green flip-phone. Growing up, I was always fascinated by technology and how it works. Throughout my time as a Computer Science student, I have developed a deeper understanding of the systems and processes that drive the digital world. As the digital age continuously evolves, it is crucial to remain grounded in your foundations and goals. I have established a few values and goals that I hold myself to throughout my day-to-day life as a student and young adult. 

The first pillar that supports my approach to learning and achieving long-term goals is honesty. To continue improving myself, I commit to being honest with both others and myself. I strive to be honest with others so that I can hold myself accountable and responsible for the tasks that I take on. At the same time, I find it critical to be honest with myself about my own goals, limits, strengths, and weaknesses. For instance, I once struggled with a bug in a Rust project. After hours of unsuccessful debugging, I turned to resources such as office hours, online Rust guides, and Stack Overflow forums. In the end, the bug was an ownership error tied to a variable. At the time, I had not quite grasped the concept of ownership. By honestly assessing what I knew and where I struggled, I broke the problem into manageable steps and set clear goals for improving the areas where I was weakest. Honesty enables me to focus on where I want to be in the future, rather than dwelling on where I have been. 

The second pillar, consistency, serves as the foundation of my personal and professional growth, and it remains the strongest value I uphold in every aspect of my life. Perhaps it stems from my natural attention to details, but I am particular about how I complete daily tasks. Whether it is my morning routine, a snack-to-movie ritual, my debugging habits, or my code testing; I aim to maintain consistency each day. When I debug, I follow a systematic process. This involves gradually testing each part of the program, so I do not overlook any possible issues. I find peace in approaching obstacles and tasks step by step and relying on methodical strategies. Thus, I am able to work with focus and dedication. My consistency ensures that I tackle challenges thoroughly and reliably. 

Finally, whether in a personal or group setting, reliability is the strength that defines how I ensure tasks are completed efficiently. Socially, I sometimes struggle with this as I am naturally introverted and rarely voice my opinions. However, in professional settings, I set aside that instinct to stay silent and focus on communicating and collaborating effectively. I once worked on a group project in Javascript to recreate the PokeDex with additional features. My natural attentiveness and observance allowed me to recognize colleagues’ strengths and weaknesses, which helped me assess, organize tasks, and coordinate efforts within the team. I set strict deadlines for myself in order to be someone that my colleagues can rely on with confidence. Coupled with my personal accountability, this reliability enables me to not only complete my own work efficiently, but to encourage others to do the same. 

As I near the end of my undergraduate career and begin my professional journey, I hope to uphold these values in everything that I do. I aspire to continue learning and growing, both professionally and personally. These pillars: honesty, consistency, and reliability, form the foundation of my growth, guiding me to put my best foot forward each day while striving to do even better tomorrow.
